
Differences    between probate and letters of administrationRefer to the following to understand which you should apply for: ProbateLetters of AdministrationWhen to applyIf the deceased left a valid will.If the deceased did not leave a valid will.Who should applyThe executor that has been appointed in the will. The beneficiaries of the estate, who may include the spouse, children, parents, siblings or other next-of-kin depending on the circumstances.Who the applicant will be legally recognised as The executor of the deceased's estate.The administrator of the deceased's estate. 

When is a grant neededA grant may not be required to administer an estate below $50,000 if you satisfy certain criteria and the Public Trustee agrees to administer the estate.You also may not need a grant for the following assets:Immovable property (such as Housing & Development Board (HDB) flats) held under a joint tenancy with no outstanding mortgage.Certain insurance policies with nominations.Money in the deceased's Central Provident Fund (CPF) account. Certain types of joint bank accounts and sole bank accounts that fulfil the specific bank's guidelines.        For example, joint accounts where the account holders have signed the bank documents agreeing to release money to the surviving account holder upon the death of an account holder. If a grant is not required, contact the relevant institutions for the distribution and transfer of the assets.




Probate and administration
The Family Justice Courts can appoint a person to manage the estate of a deceased individual through a grant of probate or letters of administration. 








Apply for probate
Find out about probate, who can apply and the process to apply for a Grant of Probate.






Apply for letters of administration
Find out what a Grant of Letters of Administration is, who can apply and how to apply for it.






File the supporting documents (probate or administration)
Find out how to prepare and submit the supporting documents after you file your application for probate or letters of administration. 






Going to court for a probate or administration hearing 
Your application for a Grant of Probate or Grant of Letters of Administration may proceed to a hearing. Find out what to prepare and expect.






Apply to extract a probate or administration grant
Find out the steps to extract a Grant of Probate or Letters of Administration, or to obtain a certified true copy. 




