
1. File your Magistrate's ComplaintYou must come personally to the FJC to file your Magistrate’s Complaint. The court officers will assist you in completing the complaint form in the Integrated Family Application Management System (iFAMS).

2. Meet with the duty judgeAfter you have completed and submitted your Magistrate’s Complaint, you will have to appear before a duty judge where you will confirm the truth of the contents in your application. Attendance before a judge can be in person or by video conference.The judge may ask questions to clarify the information in your Magistrate's Complaint. You will then have to swear or affirm that the contents of your application and your answers to the judge are true and correct. It is a serious offence to include statements that you know to be untrue or incorrect in a sworn or affirmed application.If your Magistrate's Complaint is acceptedIf your application is in order, the judge will accept your application and direct for a notice to be issued to the respondent. This notice is a court document directing the respondent to attend mediation before a court-appointed mediator at a scheduled    time and date. You will also be issued an appointment slip containing the date and time for you to attend the mediation session. Note  Some court sessions may be conducted virtually. The court will inform you if you do not need to attend court in person. Find out more about virtual court sessions. 



If you are unable to attendIf you are unable to attend the mediation session on the stated date, you may request a change of date via email at fjcourts_maintpos@fjcourts.gov.sg at least 5 working days in advance.Your email should contain your reasons for changing the mediation session date accompanied by supporting documents. You should also state that you have informed the other party and whether they agree to the change of date.If the court grants your request, a new date for the mediation session will be arranged. Otherwise, you are required to attend the mediation session as scheduled.



Relevant legislationLegislation associated with this topic includes:The Administration of Muslim Law Act.The Women's Charter.The Family Justice Rules.


