

msf_maintenance-act https://www.msf.gov.sg/maintenanceofparents/Pages/Legislation.aspx
Page ContentMaintenance of Parents Act
The Maintenance of Parents Act allows Singapore residents aged 60 years and above - who are unable to provide for themselves - to claim maintenance from their children who are capable of supporting them, but are not doing so. Parents can claim maintenance, in the form of monthly allowances or a lump-sum payment.
You may access Singapore Statutes Online​ for the Maintenance of Parents Act and the Maintenance of Parents Rules.
Maintenance of Parents Act Amendments
The Commissioner of the Maintenance of Parents (CMP) will be doing more to help resolve maintenance disputes amicably.
In the spirit of preserving family ties, the Act will prioritise conciliation over legal action.
The changes were implemented with effect from 15 March 2011, after Parliament passed amendments to the Maintenance of Parents Bill in November 2010.
The Amendments Bill was tabled by Marine Parade MP Seah Kian Peng.
Key amendments
Measures to Encourage and Strengthen Conciliation
a) You will receive more help to resolve your maintenance issues with your children without having to file a Maintenance Order against them. The Commissioner will strive for conciliation and will only advise you to file your claim and redirect your case to the Tribunal as a last resort.
Previously, parents could choose to file a claim against their children directly with the Tribunal without trying conciliation.
b) You can achieve a written agreement for resolved cases. The maintenance agreement can be made into an enforceable Maintenance Order by the Tribunal, with the consent of both you and your children.
c) The Commissioner and Tribunal can get information from gazetted government agencies to assess if your children have the means to provide for you. The information accessed will be treated with confidentiality and will not be circulated without permission from you or your children.
d) Your children and you must attend conciliation sessions. You can make use of the sessions to work out issues and arrive at a settlement without legal action. Failure to appear for conciliation sessions may be taken into consideration by the Tribunal during the hearing of the maintenance application.
Measures to Streamline Processes
a) Up to four Deputy Presidents may be appointed to process cases faster. In the absence of the President, the Deputy Presidents may preside over Tribunal hearings, accompanied by two Tribunal members. More frequent hearings can help reduce the time taken for adjudication.
b) Multiple or vexatious claims can be dismissed. If claims are repeatedly made without sufficient grounds, the President and Deputy Presidents of the Tribunal may do away with a full Tribunal sitting if they decide to dismiss claims. This prevents abuse of the process by individuals who make multiple maintenance applications. Appeals against such decisions may be made to the full Tribunal.
c) Medical cost is now taken into consideration. The Tribunal takes into consideration the applicant's medical cost when deciding the amount of maintenance to be awarded.
Historical Background
To provide a safety net for needy and neglected parents who are unable to support themselves, then Nominated Member of Parliament Associate Professor Walter Woon proposed a bill in Parliament, on 23 May 1994 to enact the law for the maintenance of parents.
The move was met with varying opinions from the public and Members of Parliament.
After the Bill's second reading in July 1994, it was sent to an 11-member Select Committee. The Committee submitted its findings and amended Bill, with a key recommendation to set up a Tribunal to administer the law.
On 2 November, 1995, the Maintenance of Parents Bill was passed in Parliament.

​​​​​










PUBLISHED ON Wed, Jan 27, 2021





msf_conciliation-process https://www.msf.gov.sg/maintenanceofparents/Pages/ConciliationProcess.aspx
Page ContentConciliation ProcessConciliation at the Commissioner's Office is the 
      first step to resolving maintenance issues between parents and children.Step 1: ConsultationA Conciliation Officer will go through the maintenance issues with the parent or representative of the parent. He will contact the children for conciliation when the parent wishes to do so. If the parent does not know where the children are, the Conciliation Officer will attempt to trace them. The parent may be referred to other agencies for assistance if the children cannot be traced for conciliation. Step 2: ConciliationMore than one session of conciliation may take place and separate sessions may be helpful if both parties do not wish to attend together.A joint session is meant to help both parties understand each other and work through their issues. This may be the first time that the parent and children are hearing each others side of the story. Hopefully, the children will realise that their parents need their help while the parents may understand that children have their own needs to meet too. How long each case takes depends on how many children are involved and how complex the maintenance issues are. A simple case can be settled within a month, while a complex one may take up to 3 months. More time will be needed to locate long-lost children and get them to attend conciliation sessions. Step 3: AgreementIf the parent and children manage to agree on an arrangement, they will sign a memorandum with the agreed terms, including the amount, date and mode of contribution. This can be made into an order endorsed by the Tribunal, if both parent and children decide to do so. With an endorsed order, the parent can go to the Family Court if the child fails to keep to the agreement. With an unendorsed agreement, the parent can file a formal claim at the Tribunal if the child fails to keep to the agreement. To set an appointment for conciliation, you can contact the Office of the Commissioner for the Maintenance of Parents. Call 
            
6471 6313 or email to 
            
msf-enquiry_cmp@msf.gov.sgFor more information, please read 
         FAQs on Conciliation Process.  ​​​​​​​​
   ​










PUBLISHED ON Fri, Jan 29, 2021





msf_maintenance-application https://www.msf.gov.sg/maintenanceofparents/Pages/HowtoApplyforMaintenance.aspx
Page Content​​​​​How to Apply for MaintenanceParents 
      must strive for conciliation at the Commissioner's Office first before filing a claim to the Tribunal.CriteriaTo file an application,you must be a Singapore Citizen or Permanent Resident you must be 60 years old and above and unable to support yourself if you are below the age of 60, you must be able to prove that there are valid reasons for seeking maintenance (such as health problems) Step 1: FilingYou have to apply in person at the Tribunal for the Maintenance of Parents Registry. If you are unable to do so due to health or other reasons, an application can be made on your behalf by:any member of your family a person who is caring for you a person or organisation looking after you. The person or organisation must apply to MSF before filing an application on your behalf. 

​
   

​The applicant has to bring along:NRIC of the parent NRIC of person applying, if you authorised another person or organisation to file the application on your behalf. Letter of authorisation, if you authorised another person or organisation to file the application on your behalf. The names, last known addresses and/or NRICs of the children whom you are wish to file for a Maintenance Order against Your bank account passbook or bank statement Information on your living expenses Information on your assets and savingsYour medical reports, if any. 

​​​You and your children named in the application will receive a Notice of Application after the application is filed.Your children will have to file an 
      Answer within 14 days. They may also submit other relevant information to support their response.Step 2: MediationThe Tribunal will refer both parent and children to a mediator within 4 weeks. The mediator will help the parent and children to discuss the dispute and negotiate a settlement.If the parent and children achieve a settlement, a Maintenance Agreement will be brought before the Tribunal for a Maintenance Order to be made.For more information, please read 
      
Mediation.Step 3: HearingIf the parent and children do not achieve a settlement, an application will be made for a Tribunal hearing. Both parent and children must be present at the hearing.The Tribunal may do any of the following: Make a Maintenance Order on the application Dismiss the application Adjourn the hearing on the application  For more information, please read 
      
Tribunal Hearing.For more information, please read 
      
FAQs on How to Apply for Maintenance. ​​​​ ​​​​​​ ​​ 
​










PUBLISHED ON Mon, Feb 1, 2021





msf_maintenance-respond https://www.msf.gov.sg/maintenanceofparents/Pages/HowtoRespondtoaNoticeofApplication.aspx
Page Content​How to Respond to a Notice of ApplicationStep 1: FilingIf your parent files for a maintenance application against you, you will receive a Notice of Application. You need to formally respond by submitting an Answer. This Answer must be submitted 
      within 14 days of the Notice of Application.You must send or 
      email the following to the Secretariat Office of the Tribunal:an Answer (Form 12) a Statement. 

You must also send the Answer to your parents and siblings, if they are named as parties in the Notice of Application.Step 2: Mediation The Tribunal will refer both parent and children to a mediator within 4 weeks. The mediator will help the parent and children to discuss the dispute and negotiate a settlement.If the parent and children achieve a settlement, a Maintenance Agreement will be brought before the Tribunal for a Maintenance Order to be made.For more information, please read 
      
Mediation.Step 3: HearingIf the parent and children do not achieve a settlement, an application will be made for a Tribunal hearing. Both parent and children must be present at the hearing.The Tribunal may do any of the following: Make a Maintenance Order on the application Dismiss the application Adjourn the hearing on the application  For more information, please read 
      
Tribunal Hearing. ​​​​ 
​










PUBLISHED ON Fri, Jan 29, 2021





msf_mediation https://www.msf.gov.sg/maintenanceofparents/Pages/Mediation.aspx
Page ContentMediation
When parents file for a Maintenance Order against their children, a mediation session will be fixed for all parties to go for mediation in the Tribunal.
Mediation aims to help parents and children arrive at a settlement. A mediator is assigned within 4 weeks of the Notice of Application to mediate between parents and children.
If mediation results in a settlement, both parents and children can endorse a maintenance agreement prepared by the mediator. From this, a consent order can be made by the Tribunal.
If mediation does not result in a settlement, both parents and children will have to attend the Tribunal hearing for an order to be made.
Who are the mediators?
They are professional mediators from the Singapore Mediation Centre and the Eagles Mediation & Counselling Centre.
Is the mediator neutral?
Yes, the mediator is a neutral third party who will guide both parents and children to negotiate and resolve issues.
The mediator does not decide, recommend, assess or give advice. He acts purely on the wishes of both parties for a fair settlement.
How does mediation work?
During the process of mediation, the mediator will meet with the parties jointly and individually to work towards resolution of the maintenance issue. It may be necessary for the mediator to include information obtained from other sources/persons after consultation with both parties.
What do I have to tell the mediator?
You must be honest and provide complete information and documents that the mediator requires. If full and honest disclosure is not made during the course of mediation, any agreement entered into during mediation may not be valid.
Is mediation confidential?
Yes. Details of mediation sessions and all communications between both parties and the mediator are strictly confidential.

​










PUBLISHED ON Wed, Jan 27, 2021





msf_tribunal https://www.msf.gov.sg/maintenanceofparents/Pages/TribunalHearing.aspx
Page Content​​​​​​​​​​ 
Tribunal HearingIf the parent and children are unable to achieve a settlement after mediation, an application will be made for a Tribunal hearing. Both parent and children must be present at the hearing. The Tribunal may do any of the following: Make a Maintenance Order on the application Dismiss the application Adjourn the hearing on the application  What if I am unable to attend the Tribunal Hearing? You should inform the Secretariat Office of the Tribunal as soon as you can, in writing, providing reasons for your absence. The Tribunal may adjourn, dismiss or make an order, despite your absence. If you are the Applicant, your application may be dismissed unless you have valid reasons in advance for your absence. The Tribunal may adjourn for a further hearing. If you are the Respondent, an order of maintenance can still be made in your absence if you present no valid reasons in advance for not turning up. You may however file an application (using 
            Form 13) in person to set aside the Order with reasons for your absence within 14 days of the Tribunal Order. What language will the Tribunal Hearing be conducted in?It will be conducted in English, and an interpreter will be present to translate where necessary. How should I conduct myself during the Tribunal hearing? Switch off your mobile phone or set it to silent mode before entering the courtroom. Recording is not permitted in the courtroom. Be polite and calm at all times and address Tribunal members as 'Sir', 'Madam' or 'Your Honour.' Never shout, use vulgar expressions, or interrupt someone who is speaking. You will have your turn to speak. Ask for permission if you wish to submit documents to the Tribunal. You may hand your documents to the Tribunal Officer, not directly to the presiding Tribunal members. Also ask to provide copies if you need to keep the originals. What must I bring for the Tribunal Hearing? You should bring all relevant documents that support your position and Answer, such as information on living expenses, assets and savings, if you have not submitted these earlier. Make three copies of documents you wish the Tribunal to see. You may also bring witnesses, if any.Are lawyers allowed to represent the parties in the Tribunal Hearing? No. How will the Tribunal decide on each maintenance application? The Tribunal decides on a maintenance order based on two main factors:  That the Respondent can provide maintenance to the Applicant after meeting the needs of himself, his spouse and his children That the Applicant is unable, despite his efforts, to maintain himself through work, from his property or from any other source.  All circumstances of the case are taken into consideration, including:  Financial needs of the Applicant, such as housing expenses and medical costs Income, property and other financial resources of the Applicant and the manner in which he spent his savings Applicant’s health problems, such as physical or mental disabilities Income, property and other financial resources of the Respondent; Expenses incurred by the Respondent in supporting his spouse or children Contributions and provisions the Respondent has made for the maintenance of the Applicant  If the Applicant was found to have abandoned, abused or neglected the Respondent, the Tribunal may dismiss the application or reduce the amount of the ordered maintenance sum. It is up to the Respondent to prove he was abandoned, abused or neglected.Where there is more than one Respondent, the Tribunal may split up the maintenance sum among various Respondents in a just manner. Are proceedings open to the public? The proceedings are conducted in private. The Tribunal may open proceedings to the public if the Applicant or Respondent applies to do so. Who will sit on the Tribunal during a Hearing? The President or the Deputy President presides the hearing, together with at least two other members.Can I apply to change the Maintenance Order made by the Tribunal?Yes, the Applicant (Form 7) or Respondent (Form 8) may apply to change the maintenance order in person at the Secretariat Office of the Tribunal, provided there is one or more of the following reasons: Misrepresentation Mistake of fact Material change in circumstances  For more information, please read 
            
How to respond to a Notice of Variation. Can I make an appeal on the Tribunal's order? For information on appeals, please refer to the Maintenance of Parents Act (https://sso.agc.gov.sg/Act/MPA1995). If you require more information on how to file an appeal, you may enquire with the Family Justice Courts Family Registry (FJCOURTS_Family_Registry@FJCourts.gov.sg). You may wish to note that there are timelines involved in the filing of such applications. Parties may wish to seek legal advice for these matters.​What happens if a Respondent does not comply with the Tribunal's maintenance order?The Tribunal’s maintenance orders may be enforced in the same manner as maintenance orders for wives and children are enforced under the Women’s Charter. 
Contact the Secretariat Office for information on enforcement procedures.  ​​ 
​​​​​​​​​










PUBLISHED ON Fri, Jul 16, 2021





msf_respond-notice-variation https://www.msf.gov.sg/maintenanceofparents/Pages/HowtorespondtoaNoticeofVariation.aspx
Page Content​
How to respond to a Notice of Variation If the parent (the “Applicant”) or the child (the “Respondent”) applies to change the Maintenance Order made earlier, a Notice of Application will be sent to all affected parties.Both parent and child need to respond 
            within 14 days of the Notice of Variation application.You must send or 
            email the following to the Secretariat Office of the Tribunal:an Answe​r (Form 12) a Statement.  ​
​










PUBLISHED ON Fri, Jan 29, 2021



