
A Singapore Government Agency Website




Who we areNews and resourcesLegal professionalsForms and feesLegal help and supportContact usNew Rules of Court 2021COVID-19


Who is a deputy A deputy is an individual appointed by the court to make decisions on behalf of a patient who lacks mental capacity. A deputy may be the patient's family member or friend.A doctor has to certify that the patient lacks mental capacity to make decisions due to an impairment of or disturbance in the functioning of the mind or brain. The Family Courts hear all deputyship applications under the Mental Capacity Act. Watch the video to find out more about the Mental Capacity Act in Singapore.&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;nbsp;For video with Chinese subtitles, click here.For video with Malay subtitles, click here.For video with Tamil subtitles, click here.
Differences between the simplified and standard processThere are 2 ways to file a deputyship application – via the simplified or the standard process. Refer to the following comparison table to check which process applies to your case. Simplified processStandard processWhen it appliesIf you seek one or more of the following orders: To use up to $80,000 from the patient's funds.Other common orders such as to consent to medical treatment or decide on care services for the patient. Refer to the full list of orders.If any of the following applies: Someone is objecting to your application.The orders you seek fall outside the scope of the simplified process.How long it takesApplications are usually completed within 4 to 6 weeks, unless submissions are incomplete or the case is complex.Applications are usually completed within 3 to 4 months, unless submissions are incomplete or the case is complex.Estimated fees$40 excluding cost of medical report.$300 to $1000, depending on the documents you need to file.How to applyThrough the Integrated Family Application Management System (iFAMS). Find out how to apply through the simplified process.Through eLitigation. Find out how to apply through the standard process. 





Deputyship
The Family Courts can appoint a deputy to make decisions for a person who lacks mental capacity. Find out what it means and the ways to apply.








Before applying to be a deputy
Find out when you may need to apply to be a deputy, the responsibilities of a deputy and what you must do before applying.






File a simplified deputyship application
Find out the step-by-step process of applying to be a deputy under the simplified process. 






File a deputyship application (standard process)
Find out the step-by-step process of applying to be a deputy under the standard process. 






Going to court for deputyship
Find out what to expect at a case conference or hearing for a deputyship application, including the possible outcomes. 






Object to a deputyship application
Find out how to object to an application for the court to appoint a deputy to make decisions for a patient who lacks mental capacity.




