An application for divorce is a legal procedure to end a marriage.

You and your spouse may file a divorce application on a simplified track if both parties can agree on all of the following before court papers are filed:

The divorce.
All ancillary matters related to the divorce.
This includes children's care arrangements (if applicable), maintenance (the amount of financial support) given to the spouse and children and the division of matrimonial assets.
If parties cannot agree on any of the matters relating to the divorce before the court papers are filed, they will have to file a divorce application on a normal track.

In order to be eligible to apply for a divorce in the Family Courts, you or your spouse must meet the following requirements:

Be a Singapore citizen or have been living in Singapore for 3 continuous years immediately prior to the filing of a divorce application.
Have been married for at least 3 years.
You cannot file for a divorce if you and your spouse have been married for less than 3 years unless leave of court (permission) is obtained to do so.
Are married under civil law.
Parties married under Syariah law should file for divorce in the Syariah Court instead.
Understand the facts to rely on in support of a divorce
Parties will be granted a divorce only if the court finds that their marriage has irretrievably broken down.

If you intend to file the divorce application, you must show the court that you are relying on one or more of these facts to prove that your marriage has irretrievably broken down.

Legal facts

It means...

You may file for divorce...

Adultery

Your spouse has cheated on you by having sexual relations with someone who is not you, and you find it intolerable to live with your spouse.

As soon as infidelity is known.

Unreasonable behaviour

Your spouse has inflicted physical or mental abuse or any other misconduct, or behaved in a manner that you cannot be reasonably expected to live with them.

At any time after the incident has taken place.

Desertion

Your spouse has left you against your wishes and completely rejected the marital relationship.

After 2 years from the date of desertion.

Separation

You and your spouse have been living separately and apart, or together but maintaining different households.

After 3 years from the date of separation and your spouse agrees to the divorce based on the fact that both of you have been living separately and apart for 3 years.
(If you have not obtained your spouse's consent to the divorce) After 4 years from the date of separation.
Consider all ancillary matters relating to the divorce
Parties will need to think about all the following ancillary matters before applying for a divorce.

Ancillary matters

Includes issues relating to...

Children's care arrangements

Custody (who makes the major decisions).
Care and control (who takes care of the children on a daily basis).
Access (how often the parent who does not have care and control sees the children).
Maintenance (how much financial support should be given for the children’s expenses).

Wife's or incapacitated husband's maintenance

The amount of financial support given to the spouse. This may be any of the following:

A nominal sum.
A specific sum per month and whether it is for a fixed period of time.
One-time lump sum.
No maintenance.
Assets distribution

Which assets are to be divided (for example the house).
(If parties own an HDB flat) Parties may wish to contact the Housing & Development Board (HDB) on their options regarding the flat.
How the assets will be divided (for example CPF monies and monies in joint bank accounts).
Costs of divorce proceedings

Who will bear the costs of the divorce proceedings. This may be:

Borne by one party.
Shared between both parties.
Each party bears own costs.


What is a divorce application on a simplified track
Parties may file a divorce application on a simplified track if they can agree on all of the following:

The marriage has irretrievably broken down.
Ancillary matters such as children's care arrangements (if applicable), maintenance and the division of matrimonial assets.
A divorce application on a simplified track may take about 4 months to conclude.

File a divorce application (simplified track) step-by-step
This is the process of filing for a divorce on the simplified track.

If you are filing the divorce application, you are the plaintiff.

Your spouse is the defendant.

Before filing
Understand the requirements for divorce

Find out if you are eligible to file for divorce in the Family Courts, the facts you can rely on in support of your divorce and the ancillary matters relating to the divorce you have to consider.

Understand the requirements for getting a divorce
Start divorce proceedings
File and serve documents

Divorce proceedings start when you file the necessary documents with the Family Courts.

How to file divorce papers (simplified track)
After the case is set down
At an uncontested divorce hearing

If your documents are in order, the court will schedule an uncontested divorce hearing. The court may grant the divorce at the hearing on the terms agreed between you and the defendant. You, the defendant and your lawyers (if any) are not required to attend the hearing.
