
A Singapore Government Agency Website




Who we areNews and resourcesLegal professionalsForms and feesLegal help and supportContact usNew Rules of Court 2021COVID-19


What is probate and administration When a loved one passes away, they leave behind their estate. This includes their money and property (such as cash, real estate, financial securities, possessions and other assets), as well as their liabilities (such as debts). Estates must be administered and distributed in accordance with the law. Probate and administration is the legal process of appointing someone to manage the deceased’s estate. The Family Courts and the Family Division of the High Court hear probate    and administration applications.Watch the video to find out more about probate and administration in Singapore.&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;nbsp;For video with Chinese subtitles, click here.For video with Malay subtitles, click here.For video with Tamil subtitles, click here. Note There are different types of probate and administration applications. This website only covers the process for the following cases (which do not involve competing parties):Grant of Probate: If the deceased left a valid will and the applicant is the executor named in it.Grant of Letters of Administration: If the deceased did not leave a valid will and the applicant is a beneficiary entitled to a share of the estate.For other cases not listed,you may wish to seek legal advice.If you are unsure whether the deceased left a valid will, check with the Wills Registry or with the deceased's lawyers or family members.  
Differences    between probate and letters of administrationRefer to the following to understand which you should apply for: ProbateLetters of AdministrationWhen to applyIf the deceased left a valid will.If the deceased did not leave a valid will.Who should applyThe executor that has been appointed in the will. The beneficiaries of the estate, who may include the spouse, children, parents, siblings or other next-of-kin depending on the circumstances.Who the applicant will be legally recognised as The executor of the deceased's estate.The administrator of the deceased's estate. 

When is a grant neededA grant may not be required to administer an estate below $50,000 if you satisfy certain criteria and the Public Trustee agrees to administer the estate.You also may not need a grant for the following assets:Immovable property (such as Housing & Development Board (HDB) flats) held under a joint tenancy with no outstanding mortgage.Certain insurance policies with nominations.Money in the deceased's Central Provident Fund (CPF) account. Certain types of joint bank accounts and sole bank accounts that fulfil the specific bank's guidelines.        For example, joint accounts where the account holders have signed the bank documents agreeing to release money to the surviving account holder upon the death of an account holder. If a grant is not required, contact the relevant institutions for the distribution and transfer of the assets.



 Note There are different types of probate and administration applications. This website only covers the process for the following cases (which do not involve competing parties):Grant of Probate: If the deceased left a valid will and the applicant is the executor named in it.Grant of Letters of Administration: If the deceased did not leave a valid will and the applicant is a beneficiary entitled to a share of the estate.For other cases not listed,you may wish to seek legal advice.If you are unsure whether the deceased left a valid will, check with the Wills Registry or with the deceased's lawyers or family members. 


Probate and administration
The Family Justice Courts can appoint a person to manage the estate of a deceased individual through a grant of probate or letters of administration. 








Apply for probate
Find out about probate, who can apply and the process to apply for a Grant of Probate.






Apply for letters of administration
Find out what a Grant of Letters of Administration is, who can apply and how to apply for it.






File the supporting documents (probate or administration)
Find out how to prepare and submit the supporting documents after you file your application for probate or letters of administration. 






Going to court for a probate or administration hearing 
Your application for a Grant of Probate or Grant of Letters of Administration may proceed to a hearing. Find out what to prepare and expect.






Apply to extract a probate or administration grant
Find out the steps to extract a Grant of Probate or Letters of Administration, or to obtain a certified true copy. 




