
A Singapore Government Agency Website




Who we areNews and resourcesLegal professionalsForms and feesLegal help and supportContact usNew Rules of Court 2021COVID-19


 Note If you suspect that a vulnerable adult is hurt or requires protection, you may: Contact the police.Call the 24-hour National Anti-Violence and Sexual Harassment Helpline at 1800 777 0000.Who is a vulnerable adultA vulnerable adult (VA) is someone who meets all of the following criteria:Is at least 18 years old.Has a mental or physical infirmity (weakness), disability or incapacity, and because of it, is unable to protect themselves from abuse, neglect or self-neglect.
What is abuse, neglect or self-neglectExamples of abuse, neglect or self-neglect for a VA include:AbusePhysical abuse.Emotional or psychological abuse.Conduct that controls or dominates the VA and causes the VA to fear for their safety or well-being.Conduct that unreasonably deprives (or threatens to unreasonably deprive) the VA of freedom of movement or well-being.NeglectLack of provision of essential care, causing (or being reasonably likely to cause) one or more of the following:Personal injury.Physical pain.Injury to the VA's mental or physical health.Examples of essential care include food, clothing, medical aid, lodging and other necessities of life.Self-neglectThe VA fails to perform essential tasks of daily living, such as eating, dressing or seeking medical aid. This results in the VA suffering from one or more of the following:Malnutrition or dehydration. Untreated physical or mental illness or injury.Living in grossly unsanitary or hazardous conditions.Refer to the Vulnerable Adults Act for more information.

 The Family Courts can make orders to protect vulnerable adults. Find out about the types of protective orders:
Types of protective ordersApplicants can apply for the following types of protective orders for a VA:Restraining orderRestrains the respondent from abusing or further abusing the VA.Exclusion orderExcludes the respondent from the VA's place of residence or a specified part of the VA's place of residence.Non-access orderProhibits the respondent from entering an area outside the VA's place of residence or any other place frequented by the VA.Non-visitation or non-communication orderProhibits the respondent from visiting or communicating with the VA.Expedited orderA temporary protective order that the court may issue if the VA is experiencing (or is in immediate danger of) abuse or neglect. 

Apply to protect a vulnerable adult step-by-stepThis is the process to apply for a protective order for a VA. If you file the application, you are the applicant (also known as the complainant). The party against whom the application is filed is the respondent.

 Note If you suspect that a vulnerable adult is hurt or requires protection, you may: Contact the police.Call the 24-hour National Anti-Violence and Sexual Harassment Helpline at 1800 777 0000.

 Note You do not need a lawyer to file an application for a protective order. However, you may choose to engage one for your court mention or hearing. Find out where to get help.Resources 
GuidesRefer to the vulnerable adults brochure: English (PDF, 189 KB)Chinese (PDF, 499 KB)Malay (PDF,189 KB)Tamil (PDF, 217 KB)

Relevant legislationLegislation associated with this topic includes:The Vulnerable Adults Act.The Family Justice Act.Part 17B of the Family Justice Rules. 

Practice directionsRefer to Part XIIA of the Family Justice Courts Practice Directions.

Related questions
(For respondents) I have received a summons for an application to protect a vulnerable adult. What should I do? If you have received a summons to attend court for a protective order application for a vulnerable adult (VA), you must attend the court mention indicated in the summons. You are the respondent.If you consent to the application during the mention, an order will be made and the case will conclude. If you do not consent to the application during the mention, the court may refer the case for counselling or give you directions to prepare for a hearing    at a later date. On conclusion of the hearing, the judge will decide the outcome. Find out more about going to court for the application. You may choose to seek legal advice on your options. Find out where to get help.



 Note You do not need a lawyer to file an application for a protective order. However, you may choose to engage one for your court mention or hearing. Find out where to get help.




When filing





File an application
Find out the documents, fees and process to file an application to protect a VA.

Apply to protect a vulnerable adult 







Resolving the dispute





Attend court
Both you and the respondent have to attend a court session known as a mention. If the respondent does not consent to the application during the mention, the court may refer the case for counselling or give you directions to prepare for a hearing at a later date. On conclusion of the hearing, the judge will decide the outcome of the application.

Going to court for a vulnerable adult application







After an order is made





File an application, if needed
If you are not satisfied with an order made by the court, you may file an appeal.

Appeal against a decision by a Family Courts district judge or magistrate





