
Before you apply Before you apply, make sure you:Confirm that your case involves a vulnerable adult (VA). Understand the types of orders you can apply for and the process to apply. Who can applyThe following parties may apply for an order to protect a VA:If the VA has the mental capacity to consent to the applicationThe VA themselves, if they are at least 21 years old.The VA's family member who is at least 21 years old, with the VA's consent.If the VA lacks the mental capacity to consent to the applicationThe VA's family member who is at least 21 years old.The VA's donee or deputy.          A donee is a person who holds a Lasting Power of Attorney to make decisions on certain aspects of the VA's welfare, property and affairs.A deputy is a person appointed by a court under the Mental Capacity Act to make certain decisions on behalf of the VA.  
Who is a family memberA family member must be related to the VA in one of the following ways:Spouse.Child (including adopted child or stepchild).Parent or parent-in-law.Brother or sister.Grandparent. Grandchild.Any other individual whom the court may regard as a member of the VA’s family.

If an applicant is below 21 years oldAn applicant who is below 21 years old will need to act through a representative who is at least 21 years old. This representative must appoint a lawyer to file the application.

If a welfare officer or officer from the Ministry of Social and Family Development appliesIn some cases, an approved welfare officer (from a Protection Specialist Centre) or an officer from the Ministry of Social and Family Development (MSF) may apply for a protective order for a VA. In these cases, the MSF officer may apply for additional types of orders. Examples of such orders include committing the VA to a place of temporary care and protection, or placing the VA under the supervision of an approved welfare officer.

  Note If you file the application, you are the applicant (also known as the complainant).The party against whom the application is filed is the respondent. What you will needWhat you will need to prepare for your application depends on who you are:If you are a...You should prepare...VA (with mental capacity)Your identity card or passport.A medical report that shows your physical infirmity, disability or incapacity may be required.Family memberYour identity card or passport.Proof of your relationship with the VA.(If the VA has physical infirmity, disability or incapacity) A medical report of the VA's condition may be required.(If the VA does not lack mental capacity) Consent form signed by the VA, prepared according to Form 64F of the Family Justice Courts (FJC) Practice Directions.(If VA lacks mental capacity) Mental Capacity Assessment Report signed by a registered medical practitioner, prepared according to Form 64A of the FJC Practice Directions.DoneeYour identity card or passport.Lasting Power of Attorney that appoints you as the VA's donee.Mental Capacity Assessment Report signed by a registered medical practitioner, prepared according to Form 64A of the FJC Practice Directions.DeputyYour identity card or passport.Court order that appoints you as the VA's deputy.Mental Capacity Assessment Report signed by a registered medical practitioner, prepared according to Form 64A of the FJC Practice Directions.Where to apply You may file an application at any of the following locations.
At the Family Justice Courts (Family Protection Centre)You may visit the Family Protection Centre (Level 1, FJC at Havelock Square) during the operating hours to apply in person.

At a Protection Specialist Centre You may visit any of the following Protection Specialist Centres (PSC) to apply in person:Centre for Promoting Alternatives to Violence (PAVe).TRANS SAFE Centre.Care Corner Project StART. 

How to apply You will need to follow these steps to file your application:Step Result 1. File your applicationYour application is filed with the Family Justice Courts (FJC).2. Meet a court family specialist or social workerYou obtain information about the application process and your safety, and may be referred to support agencies, if required.3. Meet the duty judgeThe court accepts, rejects or dismisses your application. 
1. File your applicationBefore you visit: submit documents onlineYou are encouraged to submit your draft application and documents online via the Integrated Family Application Management System (iFAMS) before visiting the FJC or the Protection Specialist Centres (PSC). Doing so will mean less time spent processing your application at the FJC or the PSC.Refer to the following steps:Log in to iFAMS. Under the Vulnerable Adults Act (VAA) application section, select Application for a VAA Protective Order.Fill in the online form.Save your work and choose whether you wish to verify your application at the FJC or an PSC.    You will have to bring the documents you are relying on to the FJC or PSC, so that they can be checked or filed together with your application, if required.Note: For step-by-step instructions, refer to the iFAMS user guide for VAA protective order application (PDF, 500 KB).Visit one of the filing locationsBring all the required documents to the FJC or one of the PSCs to file your application. 

2. Meet a court family specialist or social workerIf you are filing at the FJC, you will meet a court family specialist (CFS) for a one-to-one session. The session may take around 30 to 45 minutes (excluding waiting time).If you are filing at an PSC, a social worker will guide you through the session instead. During the session, the CFS or social worker will:Provide you with the necessary information on the application process.Cover issues with regard to your safety.Assess your needs.    (If required) The CFS or social worker may refer you to community and support agencies. How the session is conductedIn most circumstances, the session will involve the CFS or social worker speaking to you. If required, a support person such as a family member may be involved in the session.During the session, it will be helpful for you to: Share openly with the CFS about your concerns and reasons for the application.    However, should the CFS assess that there is an immediate risk of harm to the VA, they are obligated to inform the relevant agencies to ensure the VA's safety.Take up the referrals that the CFS may make for you. Note: The session will be conducted in a private room and the details of the session will not be disclosed to other parties. Only details provided in your application form and the outcome of the session will be made known to the respondent. If necessary, the CFS will seek your consent before sharing any information which may be helpful for the respondent to know. 

3. Meet the duty judgeYou will have to appear before a duty judge. During this session, you will confirm the truth of the contents of your application.You will need to:Appear before the judge either in court or through video conference. This is usually done on the same day you visit the FJC or PSC.Answer questions that the judge has for you. Swear or affirm that the contents of your application and your answers are true and correct.  Note It is a serious offence to include statements that you know to be untrue or incorrect in a sworn or affirmed application. 

If your application is acceptedIf your application is in order, the judge will issue a summons to the respondent. If not, the judge will dismiss your application. The summons is a court document directing the respondent to attend court on a scheduled date and time for a court session known as a mention. If the judge issues a summons, you will need to pay a sum of $1. The court will serve the summons on the respondent at the address that you provided in your application.You will also be issued a mention slip containing the date and time for you to attend the court mention. Find out what happens at the court mention.Note: In some cases, the judge may issue an expedited order if the VA is experiencing or is in immediate danger of abuse or neglect. This order will be served on the respondent together with the summons.








Need help?
The information here is for general guidance as
the courts do not provide legal advice. If you need further help, you may want to get independent legal advice. 
Find out more






Resources 
GuidesRefer to the vulnerable adults brochure: English (PDF, 189 KB)Chinese (PDF, 499 KB)Malay (PDF, 189 KB)Tamil (PDF, 217 KB)

Relevant legislationLegislation associated with this topic includes:The Vulnerable Adults Act.The Family Justice Act.Part 17B of the Family Justice Rules. 

Practice directionsRefer to Part XIIA of the Family Justice Courts Practice Directions.



When to attend court for a vulnerable adult applicationParties in an application to protect a vulnerable adult (VA) must first attend a court mention. If the parties cannot resolve the matter during the mention, the case will proceed to a hearing at a later date. This will be before a judge, who will decide the outcome of the application. Find out about what happens:At the mention.At the hearing.Attendance is compulsory Both the applicant and the respondent must attend all the court sessions.The Family Courts will inform you of the date, time and venue of your court session in the following ways:For the first mentionAs the applicant, you will receive a mention slip with the details after filing your application.As the respondent, you will receive a summons with the mention details.For the hearingBoth parties will be informed of the details of the hearing at the previous court session. 
If you are absentAs the applicant, your application may be struck out.As the respondent, the judge can either make an order in your absence or issue a warrant of arrest against you.

If you want to change the court dateYou can make an application to change the court date through the Integrated Family Application Management System (iFAMS). You must request at least 5 working days in advance and include supporting documents.For urgent cases, contact the Family Justice Courts (FJC) Registry at fjcourts_maintpos@fjcourts.gov.sg or 6435 5077.If the court grants your request, a new date will be arranged. Otherwise, you are required to attend the court session as scheduled.

If the vulnerable adult is afraid to see the respondent in courtThe VA may wish to have a family member or friend accompany them to the court. If no one is able to accompany them, they may discuss with the court family specialists at the Family Protection Centre for alternative arrangements, such as attending via video conference instead.The VA may also apply for other forms of assistance. Find out where to get help.Arriving in court for your session Note Some court sessions may be conducted virtually. The court will inform you if you do not need to attend court in person. Find out more about virtual court sessions.If you are asked to attend court physically, you should:Arrive early and find your way to the venue.Refer to the building directory for more information.Confirm your case is heard in the venue you are about to enter. Inform the court officer before entering, if applicable.Dress neatly and decently when attending court.    Refer to the visitors' guide for the dress code.Speak and conduct yourself in a courteous manner.Bring the documents that you submitted to the court. At your court mentionAt the first mention, the relevant court officer will inform the respondent of the allegations made against them in the VA application. What happens next depends on whether the respondent consents to the application. 
If the respondent consentsIf the respondent admits partially or fully to the allegations and consents to the application, the court may make a protective order for the VA if the court is satisfied with both of the following: The VA has experienced, is experiencing or is at risk of abuse, neglect or self-neglectThe order is necessary for the protection and safety of the VA.Depending on the nature of the case, the court may also order one or both parties to attend counselling or other court-directed programmes.

If the respondent does not consentIf the respondent does not consent to the application, the court may refer both parties to attend a counselling session or family conference with a court family specialist.This may be on the same day. If there are no slots available on the same day, the session will take place on another date.If the court does not refer the parties for counselling or if there is no resolution after the counselling session, the court may arrange for subsequent mentions or case conferences to give directions to the parties to prepare the case for a hearing. The court may direct you and the other party to exchange documents and other evidence. The court will schedule a hearing date after the court is satisfied that parties are ready for the hearing.

At your hearingAt the hearing, both parties get the chance to present their case to a judge. You (or your lawyer, if any) will need to present your case:If you are the applicantYou and your witnesses will present your case first. Both you and your witnesses can be questioned by the respondent on what you presented.If you are the respondentYou and your witnesses will present your case after the complainant has done so. Both you and your witnesses can be questioned by the applicant on what you presented.The judge will make a decision after both parties have presented their respective cases.Possible outcomes of the hearing
Court makes a protective orderThe court may grant a protective order if the court is satisfied with both of the following:The VA has experienced, is experiencing or is at risk of abuse, neglect or self-neglectThe order is necessary for the protection and safety of the VA.Depending on the nature of the case, the court may also order one or both of the parties to attend counselling or other court directed programmes.

Court does not make a protective orderThe court may also choose to dismiss the case and not make a protective order if there are no valid grounds (reasons) for the order.

After the court makes a protective orderIf the respondent does not obey the orderIf the respondent does not comply with the court order, the applicant may report the matter to the police. The breach of a protective order is a criminal offence punishable by a fine of up to $5,000, an imprisonment term of up to 12 months, or both. A subsequent offence is punishable by a fine of up to $8,000, an imprisonment term of up to 18 months, or both.If you are not satisfied: appealIf you are not satisfied with the court's decision, you may appeal to the Family Division of the High Court by filing a Notice of Appeal.You need to file and serve the notice within 14 days from the date the order was made.You must also provide security for the other party’s costs of the appeal. This will cost $3,000. Find out more about appeals.








Need help?
The information here is for general guidance as
the courts do not provide legal advice. If you need further help, you may want to get independent legal advice. 
Find out more






Resources 
Guides Refer to the vulnerable adults brochure: English (PDF, 189 KB)Chinese (PDF, 499 KB)Malay (PDF, 189 KB)Tamil (PDF, 217 KB)

Relevant legislationLegislation associated with this topic includes:The Vulnerable Adults Act.The Family Justice Act.Part 17B of the Family Justice Rules. 

Practice directionsRefer to Part XIIA of the Family Justice Courts Practice Directions.

Related questions
As the applicant, what do I do if I wish to withdraw my application?During the next court session (mention or hearing), you must inform the judge of your intent to withdraw. The court will direct you on what to do.

I filed an application on behalf of a vulnerable adult. Does the vulnerable adult need to attend the court sessions?If the vulnerable adult (VA) has the mental capacity to decide on the application, the court will invite the VA to attend.If the VA has been assessed to lack mental capacity (such as suffering from severe dementia, in which case the application is made by another person on their behalf), then it is unlikely that the court will invite the VA to attend.


